Spotify® Terms and Conditions of Use

Effective as from 30 November 2011

This document (the “Agreement”) is a legally binding agreement between you and Spotify Limited, a company registered in the UK under number 06436047 (“Spotify”) that governs your use of Spotify’s software application, including the Mobile Client as defined in Section 5 below (the “Spotify Software Application”) and online streaming Spotify Service (as defined below), both available at the Spotify Websites (as defined in the Spotify Privacy Policy). The Spotify Service can be accessed as an ad-supported free-to-the-user service, having no monthly cap on listening hours or a cap on number of plays of a unique track, during the first 6 months following creation of your Spotify account and thereafter a cap of 10 listening hours per month and a cap of 5 plays per unique track (the “Free Service”), an advertisement free version of the Spotify Service for which you pay a monthly or yearly subscription (the “Unlimited Service”), an advertisement free version of the Spotify Service including an offline mode which makes it possible to listen to music without a connection to the Internet via conditional downloads and other additional features for which you pay a monthly or yearly subscription (the “Premium Service”), and a version of the Spotify Service that provides access to aspects of the Spotify Service via a supported mobile handset (the “Mobile Service”). The Spotify Service also allows you to purchase permanent copies of music tracks (“Permanent Download(s)”) as individual Permanent Downloads (“A-La Carte Download(s)”) or bundles of Permanent Downloads (“Download Bundle(s)”). The A-La Carte Downloads and the Download Bundles are jointly referred to as the “Download Service”. When purchasing a Download Bundle you will receive credits which can be redeemed for Permanent Downloads (“Download Credits”). One Download Credit will enable you to download one Permanent Download. The Unlimited Service, the Premium Service and the Mobile Service are collectively referred to as the “Spotify Paid for Service”. The Free Service, the Unlimited Service, the Premium Service, the Mobile Service and the Download Service are collectively referred to as the “Spotify Service”. Please note that you must read and agree to the terms and conditions of this Agreement before you use the Spotify Software Application or the Spotify Service. If you do not agree to the terms and conditions of the Agreement, you may NOT use the Spotify Software Application or the Spotify Service. For a detailed description of the features in each of the Spotify Paid for Services, please see the Spotify Websites.
1. Contract formation

By creating a Spotify account, either through Spotify or a third party such as Facebook Ireland Limited (“Facebook”), or commencing download of the Spotify Software Application at the Facebook website or by using the Spotify Software Application (including but not limited to the downloading of said application) or the Spotify Service, you confirm that you are 18 years of age or more, or that you are 12 years of age or more and that you have received your parent’s or guardian’s consent to enter into this Agreement, that you have your residence in one of the countries in which Spotify provides the Spotify Service, that any registration information that you submit to Spotify is true, accurate and complete, that you will update such information in order to keep it current, and that you agree to the terms and conditions of this Agreement and the Spotify Privacy Policy. You also hereby agree to termination of any previous Spotify Terms and Conditions agreed with Spotify Limited, a company registered in the UK under number 06436047 (“Spotify Ltd”) (if applicable).
2. Changes to the Agreement

Spotify may make changes to this Agreement at its sole discretion. Any material changes will be communicated to you and your acceptance of and / or continued use of the Spotify Software Application or the Spotify Service after such notification of changes to this Agreement will constitute your acceptance of such changes.
3. Grant of license

You are granted a limited, non-exclusive, revocable license to make personal non-commercial use of the Spotify Software Application (including a right to download said application) and the Spotify Service and to receive by stream (and, where you have purchased the Premium Service or the Mobile Service, by conditional download), and in the case of the purchase of A-La Carte Downloads or Download Bundles, to receive Permanent Downloads of the media content made available through the Spotify Service in your home country. You do not have a right to transfer or sublicense your rights under this Agreement. Third party components included in the Spotify Software Application are licensed to you either under this Agreement, or under the relevant third party component license terms, as applicable, and published in the help section of the Spotify Software Application.
4. Purchase of the Spotify Paid for Service, A-La Carte Downloads or Download Bundles

If you agree to pay the fee for access to the applicable Spotify Paid for Service or to purchase A-La Carte Downloads or Download Bundles, such fee will be charged by the company designated by Spotify in accordance with the payment method you have chosen for your purchase. If you are paying by credit or debit card, by designating a card to be billed, you confirm that you are authorised to make such purchase and that you are the holder of such card (i.e. that the card is issued in your name). All prices stated on the Spotify Websites are inclusive of VAT (where applicable) and other applicable taxes and fees. Spotify accepts a variety of different payment methods, so please check the Spotify Websites for the best way for you to pay.
5. The Mobile Service

You are required to have the most recent mobile version of the Spotify Software Application (the “Mobile Client”) on your mobile handset in order to use the Mobile Service. The Mobile Client may be acquired only via the official channels authorised by Spotify. You agree that your access to and right to use the Mobile Service is expressly conditioned on your registering as a mobile subscriber via the authentication process associated with the Mobile Client, which authentication process may include additional terms and conditions applicable to the Mobile Service (the “Mobile Terms”) and any Mobile Terms shall form part of this Agreement. Only handsets that are supported by Spotify may be used to access the Mobile Service and you agree that Spotify has no obligation to support any particular make or model of handset, whether or not such make or model is currently, or was previously supported by Spotify.
6. The Download Service

When you purchase Permanent Downloads in the Download Service, you purchase them either as A-La Carte Downloads or in Download Bundles.

Download Bundles are available as bundles of 10, 15, 40 or 100 Permanent Downloads. You can buy Download Bundles either after you have selected a specific music track or tracks (and you will retain any remaining entitlement to Permanent Downloads after acquiring the specific music track or tracks), or at any time and added to your account in the Download Service. You have up to thirty (30) days from the date of purchase (the “Start Date”) to redeem the Permanent Downloads in the Download Bundle (the “Redemption Period”). The last date in the Redemption Period is referred to as the “Expiry Date”. You can extend the Redemption Period by purchasing another Download Bundle before the Expiry Date (a “Relevant Purchase”) whereby the Redemption Period for any unredeemed Permanent Downloads will be extended to thirty (30) days after the Relevant Purchase.. The Redemption Period may be extended several times in this manner, up to a maximum period of ninety (90) days from the Start Date.

A-La Carte Downloads are purchased as single or multiple Permanent Downloads, and can only be purchased for Permanent Downloads of a specific music track or tracks you have selected. A-La Carte Downloads are consumed at purchase (they do not have any Redemption Period) and do not qualify as a Relevant Purchase.
7. Use of cached content

The “offline mode” of the Premium Service and the Mobile Service permits you to download temporary copies of content and play it locally for so long as you maintain your subscription to the applicable Paid for Service. As a subscriber to the Premium Service, you are permitted to store such cached content on up to three (3) personal computers.
8. Local files

The Spotify Software Application automatically generates a list of the local music files which you have stored on your computer or other relevant device. This function does not automatically copy or import these music files.This automatic list function can be disabled in the preferences view in the Spotify Software Application. The “local files” function of the Spotify Service permits you to choose to import local files stored on your computer or other relevant device into the Spotify Software Application or to copy local files from your computer onto your mobile handset or other relevant device using the Mobile Client. You may only import or copy files that you have legally acquired, and have the right to import or copy. For instance, you may not use the Spotify Service to import or copy any music you have illegally downloaded from the Internet.
9. Prices

Spotify may change the price for the Spotify Paid for Service, the A-La Carte Downloads and the Download Bundles from time to time. In respect of the Spotify Paid for Service, such changed price will take effect after the expiry of the then current paid for period (i.e. the term that you have already paid for). Any price change will be communicated to you. If you do not wish to be bound by such changed price relating to your Spotify Paid for Service you may terminate your subscription of your Spotify Paid for Service in accordance with Section 17 (Term and termination). Your continued use of the Spotify Paid for Service after the communication of such price change to you constitutes an acceptance of such new price.
10. Automatic subscription renewal

Your subscription to the Spotify Paid for Service will automatically renew at the end of each subscription term unless you terminate your subscription prior to the end of such subscription term in accordance with Section 17 (Term and termination), or, in the case of the Mobile Service, your access to the Mobile Service is revoked by Spotify in accordance with the Mobile Terms. Such renewal will always be for a monthly subscription term, even if the previous subscription term was for a six or twelve month period. If you would like to renew for a longer term, then please log into your account on the Spotify Websites. At the time of renewal the payment method you have designated to be charged for the purchase of the Spotify Paid for Service will automatically be charged with the applicable amount.
11. Cooling-off period

If you have purchased A-La Carte Downloads, Download Bundles or access to the Spotify Paid for Service over the Internet, you have the right to cancel your purchase and receive a full refund within 14 days of purchase. However, please note that if you log into the Spotify Paid for Service or start to consume the A-La Carte Download or the Download Bundle within the 14-day period you will no longer have a right to cancel or withdraw from your purchase. In addition, after the 14-day period has elapsed you no longer have the right to cancel your purchase and receive a refund even if you do not subsequently log into the Spotify Paid for Service or redeem any Download Credits.
12. Spotify Social

The Spotify Software Application has features that allow you to make your profile publicly available, share links to tracks and playlists with other users of the Spotify Service, integrate your activities on the Spotify Service with functionality offered by third party social networking services, including Facebook and Twitter, including to connect your Spotify account to your Facebook account (“Spotify Social”). If you choose to activate Spotify Social, including choosing to connect to a Facebook account, your Spotify profile, including your Facebook user name and Facebook profile photo, will become publicly viewable to other users of the Spotify Service in the Spotify Software Application. If you connect your Spotify account to a Facebook account, in the preferences pane you can choose whether or not to automatically share your listening activities to Facebook, including whether or not to publish your playlists when created, to other Spotify Social users or to Facebook if you have activated sharing to Facebook. You agree that Spotify is not responsible for content once it is shared to Facebook. If you use Spotify Social, you must respect other users of the Spotify Service in your interactions with them. Spotify reserves the right, in its absolute discretion, to disable your account if it believes that you are violating this principle. Unacceptable behaviour will result in your account being terminated and you being blocked from accessing the Spotify Service. Examples of unacceptable behaviour include, but are not limited to:

    giving playlists offensive, abusive, defamatory, pornographic or obscene titles;
    harassing or bullying other users;
    spamming other users through the inbox, or using automated means to artificially promote content; and
    using a photo on your profile that infringes the copyright of a third party, or is offensive, abusive, defamatory, pornographic or obscene.

13. Third Party Applications and Third Party Application Content

The partner section of the Spotify Software Application links to software applications which are owned and operated by third parties (“Third Party Applications”). Such Third Party Applications and all third party content available through such applications (“Third Party Applications Content”) are provided by the relevant third parties only and not by Spotify. Use of Third Party Applications and Third Party Applications Content are subject to the terms of use of such Third Party Applications. Your use of the Third Party Application and Third Party Application Content is subject to Section 18 (No warranty) and Section 19 (Limitation of liability).
14. Restrictions of use

For the avoidance of doubt, you agree that you may not (without limitation):

    copy, reproduce, “rip”, record, make available to the public or otherwise use any part of the Spotify Software Application or the Spotify Service or its content (including but not limited to tracks, images and text) in a manner not expressly permitted under this Agreement;
    sell or attempt to sell any invite to access the Spotify Service, or resell any code used to access the Spotify Paid for Service;
    provide your password to any other person or use any other person's user name and password;
    reverse-engineer, decompile, disassemble, modify or create derivative works based on the Spotify Software Application or the Spotify Service or any part thereof;
    circumvent any technology used by Spotify, its licensors, or any third party to protect content accessible through the Spotify Software Application and Spotify Service;
    rent or lease any part of the Spotify Software Application or the Spotify Service;
    use the Spotify Software Application or the Spotify Service in a way that violates the terms of this Agreement;
    circumvent any territorial restrictions applied by Spotify;
    artificially increase play count or otherwise manipulate the Spotify Software Application or the Spotify Service by using a script or other automated process;
    import any local files which you have not legally acquired into the Spotify Service; and
    copy any local files which you have not legally acquired onto your mobile handset or other device using the Mobile Client.

In addition to the above, you agree to take all reasonable care to prevent unauthorized use of the Spotify Software Application and the Spotify Service and its content. You also acknowledge and agree that Spotify may remove or reclaim your username at any time if Spotify in its absolute discretion considers such action appropriate.
15. Advertising and use of computational resources

As consideration for your rights under this Agreement, you agree that (i) Spotify and its business partners have a right to provide advertising and other information to you, and that (ii) Spotify has a right to allow the Spotify Software Application and the Spotify Service to utilize the processor, bandwidth and storage hardware on your computer or other relevant device for the limited purpose of facilitating the communication and transmission of content and other data or features to you and other users of the Spotify Software Application and the Spotify Service, and to facilitate the operation of the network on which the Spotify Software Application and the Spotify Service runs. You may adjust the level of usage that the Spotify Service makes of your computer in the settings of the Spotify Software Application.
16. Customer support

If you have any questions concerning the Spotify Software Application, the Spotify Service or this Agreement, please contact Spotify customer service by visiting the help section.
17. Term and termination

This Agreement will become effective in relation to you when you create a Spotify account or when you start using the Spotify Software Application or the Spotify Service and will remain effective until terminated by you or Spotify. You may cancel your subscription of the Spotify Paid for Service at any time by visiting your subscription page which termination shall have effect at the expiry of the then-current subscription period that you have already paid for (e.g. one month, one quarter or a year). Unless your cancellation falls within the cooling off period set out in Section 11 (Cooling-off period), this means that Spotify will not refund any remaining portion of subscription fees you have already paid for. Spotify reserves the right to terminate this Agreement or suspend your Spotify account at any time in case of unauthorised, or suspected unauthorised use of the Spotify Software Application or the Spotify Service whether in contravention of this Agreement or otherwise. If Spotify terminates this Agreement, or suspends your Spotify account for any of the reasons set out in this section, Spotify shall have no liability or responsibility to you, and Spotify will not refund any amounts that you have previously paid.
18. No warranty

The use of the Spotify Software Application and the Spotify Service (including but not limited to its content) is at your own risk. The Spotify Software Application and the Spotify Service is provided on an “as is” and “as available” basis. To the fullest extent possible under applicable law, Spotify gives no warranty, express or implied, as to the quality, content and availability or fitness for a specific purpose of the Spotify Software Application or the Spotify Service. In addition, Spotify does not warrant, endorse, guarantee or assume responsibility for any Third Party Applications, Third Party Application Content or any other product or service advertised or offered by a third party on or through the Spotify Service or any hyperlinked website, or featured in any banner or other advertising. Consequently Spotify will in no way be responsible for any transaction between you and third-party providers of Third Party Applications or products or services advertised on or through the Spotify Service. As with any purchase of a product or service through any medium or in any environment, you should use your judgment and exercise caution where appropriate. No advice or information whether oral or in writing obtained by you from Spotify shall create any warranty on behalf of Spotify in this regard.
19. Limitation of liability

In no event shall Spotify, its affiliates, officers, directors, employees, licensors or any third parties be liable for any direct, indirect, incidental, special or consequential damages (including but not limited to any loss of data, service interruption, computer failure or pecuniary loss) arising out of the use of or inability to use the Spotify Software Application or the Spotify Service (including but not limited to its content), the Third Party Applications or the Third Party Application Content, even if you have advised Spotify about the possibility of such loss, and including any damages resulting therefrom.

Your only right with respect to any problems or dissatisfaction with the Spotify Software Application, the Spotify Service, the Third Party Applications or the Third Party Application Content is to uninstall the Spotify Software Application and to stop using the Spotify Service, the Third Party Applications or the Third Party Application Content.

Nothing in this Agreement removes or limits Spotify’s liability for fraudulent misrepresentation, death or personal injury caused by its negligence.
20. Indemnity

You agree to indemnify and hold Spotify and its officers, directors, employees and licensors harmless from any claim or demand (including but not limited to reasonable legal fees) made by a third party due to or arising out of or related to your violation of the terms and conditions of this Agreement or your violation of any laws, regulations or third party rights.
21. Intellectual property

Spotify respects intellectual property rights, and expects you to do the same. Please note therefore that the Spotify Software Application, the Spotify Service and the content provided through the Spotify Service is the property of Spotify or Spotify's licensors and protected by intellectual property rights (including but not limited to copyright) and that you do not have a right to use the Spotify Software Application or the Spotify Service (including but not limited to its content) in any manner not covered by the Agreement. Furthermore, you must not infringe any third party’s intellectual property rights in using the Spotify Service or the Spotify Software Application, which means that (for example) you may not import or copy any music which you have not legally acquired and have the right to so import or copy into the Spotify Software Application or the Mobile Client.

Further, you may not remove or alter any copyright, trademark or other intellectual property notices contained on or provided through the Spotify Software Application or the Spotify Service.
22. Copyright infringement and take down

If you are a copyright holder who believes that any of the products, services or content which are directly available via the Spotify Software Application or the Spotify Websites are infringing copies of your work, please let us know. A notice of alleged copyright infringement should be sent to Spotify's designated copyright agent at the following address:

Spotify
Attn: Legal Department, Copyright Agent
76 9th Avenue, Suite 1110, 11th Floor
New York, NY 10011, USA
legal@spotify.com

A notification of claimed copyright infringement must be addressed to Spotify's copyright agent listed above and include the following:

    A physical or electronic signature of the owner (or person authorized to act on behalf of the owner) of the copyright that is allegedly infringed;
    Specific identification of each copyrighted work claimed to have been infringed;
    A description of where the material believed to be infringed is located on Spotify Service or the Spotify Websites (please be as detailed as possible and provide a URL to help us locate the material you are reporting);
    Contact information for the complaining party, such as a complete name, address, telephone number, and email address;
    A statement that the complaining party has a good faith belief that use of the work(s) in the manner complained of is not authorized by the copyright owner, its agent, or the law; and
    A statement that the information in the notification is accurate, and under penalty of perjury, that the complaining party is authorized to act on behalf of the owner of an exclusive right that is allegedly.

23. Technology limitations and modifications

Spotify will make reasonable efforts to keep the Spotify Software Application and the Spotify Service operational. However, certain technical difficulties or maintenance may, from time to time, result in temporary interruptions. Spotify reserves the right at any time and from time to time to modify or discontinue, temporarily or permanently, functions and features of the Spotify Software Application and the Spotify Service with or without notice.
24. Privacy

You agree that Spotify has a right to collect and process your personal information in accordance with the Spotify Privacy Policy.
25. Assignment by Spotify

Spotify may assign this Agreement or any part of it without restrictions. You may not assign this Agreement or any part of it to any third party.
26. Entire agreement

This Agreement together with the Spotify Privacy Policy, the Mobile Terms (if applicable), the Premium Code Terms (if applicable) and the Unlimited Code Terms (if applicable) (the “Agreements”) constitutes all the terms and conditions agreed upon between you and Spotify and supersede any prior agreements in relation to the subject matter of these Agreements, whether written or oral. Any additional or different terms or conditions in relation to the subject matter of these Agreements in any written or oral communication from you to Spotify are void. You agree and accept that you have not accepted the terms and conditions of this Agreement in reliance of or to any oral or written representations made by Spotify not contained in this Agreement.
27. Severability

Should for any reason or to any extent any provision of this Agreement be held invalid or unenforceable, such invalidity or enforceability shall not in any manner affect or render invalid or unenforceable the remaining provisions of this Agreement and the application of that provision shall be enforced to the extent permitted by law.
28. Governing law and disputes

This Agreement shall be governed and construed in accordance with the laws of the country of your residence. Any dispute, controversy or claim arising out of or in connection with this Agreement will be subject to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the court or other tribunal closest to your home with the appropriate knowledge and expertise to deal with such dispute, controversy, or claim.
29. English version prevails

In the event that this Agreement is translated into other languages and there is a discrepancy between the two language versions, the English language version shall prevail to the extent that such discrepancy is the result of an error in translation.

Copyright © 2008 - 2011 Spotify Ltd. All rights reserved.

Spotify Limited, Golden House, 30 Great Pulteney Street, London W1F 9NN, United Kingdom
